# Developing_Lifestyle_Using_IOT
Look around and you will find people with smart devices that track their every move, calculate their intake and gives them trends on this data.  Primitively, Caregivers and hospitals were using telemetry to remotely gather data for improving patient care.  The primary aim of preventive healthcare was to deliver personalized care, improve patient care while reducing costs. However, Internet of Medical Things (IoMT) is driving the future of healthcare for better outcomes, improving efficiency and making healthcare more affordable as caretakers are increasingly resorting to more self- care due to increased awareness.  To get there, healthcare providers must make use of technology in a more systematic way.  The Scope of IoT is getting bigger and better in:      Preventive healthcare: by use of wearables.     Patient tracking: in monitoring patient movement and health analysis.     Geriatric care: in tracking Senior citizens which is a large market for IoT, medical devices.     Real-time location: in tracking medical devices, people and asset movement.  Gartner believes that 30% of smart wearables will be unobtrusive to the eye by 2017. it is predicted that the revenue from smart wearable devices will generate $22.9 billion by 2020.  Experts from P&amp;S Market research expect that the healthcare Internet of Things industry will grow at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 37.6 percent between 2015 and 2020.  The rising need for advanced healthcare combined with the requirements of Affordable Care Act (ACA), technology in the industry is expected to grow through 2020  Wearables for preventive health analysis  Imagine a wearable used for preventive health analysis.  The term wearable in health parlance should not be restricted to just fitness tracking devices worn in the wrist that are used to monitor personal health.  By and far, this term should go beyond tracking of physical activities; it could be used as a communication device or it could even be a device that interacts with other devices like an Apple watch, track patients’ body conditions, sleep patterns or any other critical information which may require immediate care.  It could be a device in the body, on the body or near the body like a medical app that helps track personal health;  Some of the industry medical apps that are already disrupting the healthcare market are      Philips’ Medication Dispensing Service     Airfinder     Boiron Medicine Finder App     Future Path Medical’s Urosense     Digital Hospitals making headway  Healthcare is increasingly leveraging modern technology and digital hospitals are making headway such as the Humber River Hospital in Toronto Canada and the Medical Center at Mission Bay San Francisco. Innovative approaches towards engaging robots in the radiology and other departments are also disrupting the way healthcare is delivered.  Deakin University Australia, in partnership with Telstra Australia, has developed haptics-enabled robots that can perform ultrasound diagnostics remotely. This means the patient need not be in the same place as the sonographer conducting the ultrasound.  IoMT for improved healthcare  There were 165,000 mobile healthcare apps as of November 2015 and the mobile app marketplace is expected to grow 15 times faster, according to a survey.  Another survey shows users expect digital healthcare services to be able to communicate with doctors via their smartphones, monitor health and collaborate with care givers with ease.  IoMT is slowly and steadily reducing human intervention and dependency to provide early diagnosis and contributing to improved healthcare in accordance with the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act which focus on certified EHR (Electronic Health Record) to enhance efficiency and quality of patient care.  Conclusion:  With the cost of Hardware coming down, software enabling devices to talk to multiple devices across platforms is going to redefine the way people take care of their health.  The biggest change is going to be in Preventive Healthcare, making it the biggest gamechanger.
